
# 中间件

I joined TAOBAO in 2008 and I worked in RPC and soft load balance middleware.
At 2009 TAOBAO started distribution architecture, so our middleware was widely used.
The RPC middleware supports service export and import in a very convenient way. And the soft load balance middleware works with RPC middleware and pushes service address list to RPC client.

# ipay-资金平台

In 2017, I joined Accounting team in IPAY. IPAY operates the global payment business and has many accounting entities and hundreds of transit accounts. We know the balance after daily-cut but we don't know what the balance is composed of or what business orders reside in it. For different transit accounts, the types of resident order are also different. I analysed the accounting flow and business flow and determined the types of resident order. Then I came out a data model which combines business order and its accounting flow. Next I created table in data warehouse and did ETL works to finally fill data into the table. The table is the implementation of the data model. Finally, based on this table we can easily get the resident business orders.

Now this method has covered all channel AR/AP clearing accounts.

IPAY has many entities all over the world. So we have the responsibility of submitting reports regularly to local financial authority. The most challenging report is the HKMA report. It's an asset liability balance sheet in general. On the right part, there are customer found and self found from ledger title balance. On the left part, there are bank account balance and AR/AP in-transit details. It's difficult to find all the in-transit details. First I analysed the types of in-transit details, then through ETL process I joined business orders with account date and bank date. Finally, I can get in-transit details from the combined data.

# ipay-渠道接入

After 2020 I took part in several channel integration projects. During these projects I learned different kinds of payment channels, the interactions between IPAY and channels, and the fund lose risks.

